about the homecoming or the the reception or the
lack of reception to receive
uh no but i'm not sure that i ever expected one i had
spent the previous 12 to 15 years going overseas
and coming back home and you know it's a solitary
thing coming in by myself going out by myself i
never really expect anybody to have a band waiting
for me Going to Vietnam was just another two-year
overseas, and coming back, coming home again. I
didn't expect a band. It wasn't all that kind of a
glory thing to me. It was a job to do, a job that I had
agreed to do as part of my career. That's the only
thing I looked at. It was somewhere to go to do the
job, and I'd come back. If I had to go again, I went
again. But I don't think that I approached it with
a... glory after the fact that some of our speakers
have said they expected on their return. I don't
know how anybody realistically could look at war
as something where it was a glorious thing to get
into. Perhaps it's because they didn't have the
training. They've seen a lot of movies and films.
That's great. You know the guy's going to get up and
walk away after the film's over with. That's not a
realistic concept of what war is. If you've been
training for war most of your life, you don't have
that concept. I never expected any big parade or
anything. I never felt rejected by the society. I
never had any real derogatory comments directed
at me. One of our speakers said he was sped up on
whatever. I just crossed the country several
times, going to Vietnam, coming back to Vietnam in
my uniform. I never had anybody say anything to me.
And I think I probably mingled with the same people
those guys did coming in and out of San Francisco
and California and up there. So I don't
think we were that much rejected. Nobody just paid
any attention to us. If you're looking for a big
parade, obviously you can feel rejected. It
wasn't my idea. I wanted to get off the plane and go
home. OK. I don't know if you, were you watching the
news in 1975 when Saigon fell? And if so, or even if
not, how did you, did you feel really like you just
wasted your time there? How'd that make you feel?
Oh, I watched it.
The only thing that I could say about it. Well, it
happened. I knew it probably would. I didn't have
any real doubts that they could hold out if we
decided to pull out when Nixon started talking an
honorable piece and get us out and get me settled
among themselves. It was pretty much a foregone
conclusion among most of us that had been there
that if they got out peaceably, that it wouldn't
last six months. Within six months, they'd either
be swamped or they'd be going to war again. So we
didn't see anything really different from what we
had suspected once we decided we were going to get
out of there. I personally couldn't see how the
Vietnamese could stand up to them if they hadn't
been able to do it all that time. With us there, they
certainly wouldn't be able to do it with us out
there. It was just a matter of he came sooner or not.
I thought he would. I didn't feel any evil. Regrets
about it. I certainly didn't feel that we'd spend
our time here for nothing.
We did what we set out to do during the time that we
were there. If that was our goal, then we
accomplished our goal. But it didn't make me feel
like we had been defeated by any means or that we'd
been betrayed or anything else. It was simply the
outcome. It was a logical outcome the way we were
headed. You want to get emotionally tied up into
it, and you probably could feel that you were kind
of betrayed for the time you spent over there, but I
don't know. I never looked at it as an emotional
thing. I knew there was another job to do. I went to
do the job. I came home, but I had to go back and do the
job again. Never any real emotion tied up for that
place. I could have cared less one way or the other
which way it went. But when I was told to go there and
do a job, I went there and did the job. That's the
only way I would have cared. I would say that in
personal encounter with the Vietnamese, I knew
after my first tour there that we were fighting
sort of a losing battle. The Vietnamese
themselves, if they would ever talk to you, didn't
really care whether it was BC or Arvin running the
country. So long as somebody was stabilized, they
only have to contend with one government. So here
they are in the middle of everything. Put up with BC
when they were there, and put up with Arvin when
they were controlling the area, and they didn't
care. It was totally immaterial for the little guy
out in the village. And a lot of them couldn't tell
you anything in the world about what was going on
outside their own village. As far as Saigon, they
didn't know who or what or when. They didn't care.
It didn't affect them, except they had to pay taxes
to the Arvin, and they turned around and paid taxes
to VC when they came through the collection. Like I
said, if you could get one of them to talk to you,
there was no Arvin around. He'd tell you, why don't
y'all go home? And one of these two people decide
who's going to be in charge and who'll get on with
their life. That was pretty much the thing that I
could get from an average guy out there on the farm.
It didn't really surprise me when it went out
there. Dr. Anderson in class has talked about his
trip back to Vietnam, and he's planning to go
again. Would you be interested at all in ever going
back, or say as a tourist? No. I don't. You don't
feel any attachment or anything? I have no
attachment there. If it were as a tourist and there
was something they could offer me, it would be
worthwhile to see. I might go as a tourist to see
something I might have missed when I wasn't there.
But I don't know of anything in Vietnam that I would
care to go back to see. I saw a good deal of it while I
was there. Probably a closer perspective than
most tourists will ever get to see it. And
certainly a better perspective of it than most GIs
who went over and worked with pure American units.
Most of those never got to see much more than the
base they were stationed at or the jungle they were
trooping around in, and that's not a very good view
of it. With the advisory we got out, there was very
little that I didn't know about my own province,
very little that I hadn't seen or been into. a
couple of the bordering provinces and up and
around Saigon. I made a few trips around the
country to see what it looked like, visit with
other teams to see how they were doing and what they
were doing that we might incorporate into our
effects. I probably got to see more of Vietnam than
any tourist will ever get to see. I have no feeling
about going back there. There's nobody there. I
want to see how it turned out, as I know pretty much
how it turned out. I haven't talked to them before I
left. I knew pretty much what was going on there. I
don't care if I can see them. If you get down to the
local level, you find that life hasn't changed
very much at all. Maybe a little bit more hungry and
a little bit less... well-fed or taken care of, but
I don't think overall the peasant's life changed a
great deal. Harder to be certain. One last
hypothetical question here. After Ted, you were
saying, do you think if we stepped up our presence
there and say, had we gone ahead and won, had there
been no negative view in the media and had it been
okay? Even if we had won, do you think that would
have just you know, quashed the will of the North
Vietnamese, or would there have been another
uprising, you think?
Well, if you're going on the assumption that we
could have achieved a peace where the country
would have remained divided, if that's what
you're asking, then I don't think a lasting peace
could have been established on that basis. The
sole purpose of the North was to reunite the
country. under one government. Given that, they
might have accepted a temporary truce or peace
because of their losses or whatever that we could
have inflicted upon them if they did that. I think
it probably would have been a temporary thing. You
might wind up with a situation like you have in
Korea, where since 1953, we've been a divided
country there, and the fighting has been off and
on. And even today, they're still fighting here.
It might have evolved into something like that,
but I don't think there would ever have been any
real true peace. And I think probably it would not
have stabilized my career because the North
Koreans were much, much more aggressive about
reuniting the country than the North Koreans
were. So it may have stabilized for a year, maybe
two or three, and I think people would turn around
and start holding it over again. But we would never
really have gotten rid of the VC whatever academy
still down in the south they've still been in place
still working for a different form of government
if they could have achieved a government where you
had equal representation between bc and normal
people maybe maybe it might have stabilized but
that didn't work too well in layoffs either where
they established any coalition government it
fell apart coalition governments are not the
answer One side of it is a bet on having the whole
country under their control, but I don't see how
you're going to alter that. You may delay it, but
you won't alter it until you eventually start over
again. It's like a comparison to North Korea. It's
like sitting on top of a bomb over there with a short
fuse, and the fuse is burning. When is it going to
explode again? The last time I was over there, this
was after Vietnam. We were close to going back to
war there. Something as simple as a matter of
cutting down a tree.
I don't know if you can look it up, but there was an
incident where an American officer got killed in
the DMZ by North Korean troops. And all they were
trying to do was cut down a tree and kill him. And we
were on DEFCON 1, which was defensive condition
one. The only thing that was left was simply blow
one more whistle and we were over again. And they
sent people in there. armed to cut down a tree. Had
they been fired upon, we would have been at war.
Very simple as that. It was kind of a powder keg. I
think we would have wound up with essentially the
same situation in Vietnam if they had achieved
another peace. How long it would have lasted is a
conjecture. But I don't think it would have
lasted, not like Korea has. Okay, I don't have any
further questions. Do you have anything else to
add? No, not particularly.
I think it was an experience, but on the whole, I
never really viewed it as going anywhere. It was
just simply part of the job, but I couldn't see it
being productive. You know, like World War I,
World War II, when we achieved a solution by arms, I
could not see it reaching that degree. It was part
of the job. I did it. That's what I signed on to do.
Okay. Well, that concludes our interview. Thank
you, Mr. Price.